<h2 align= center><b>APJ ABDUL KALAM TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY<b></h2>
<h2 align= center>Second Semester B.Tech Degree Examination July 2021 (2019 scheme)</h2>

<h3 align= center><b> Course Code: EST102</b></h3>
<h3 align= center><b> Course Name: PROGRAMMING IN C (Common to all programs)</b></h3>
<h4 align= center> (FN Session)</h4>

<h4 align= left>Max. Marks: 100</h4>
<h4 align= right>Duration: 3 Hours</h4>

<h3 align= center><b>PART A</b></h3>

<h4 align=center ><i>Answer all Questions. Each question carries 3 Marks</i></h4>

#### 1. Differentiate between system software and application software.
#### 2. Differentiate between complier and interpreter.
#### 3. What is the importance of precedence and associativity? Write the table for operator precedence.
#### 4. Differentiate between 'break' and 'continue' statements.
#### 5. Explain any 3 string handling functions using examples.
#### 6. Write a C program to find the occurrence of each element in an array.
#### 7. Define formal parameters and actual parameters. Illustrate with an example.
#### 8. With examples show how: 
####    (i) an array is passed as argument of a function. 
####    (ii) individual elements of an array is passed as argument of a function.
#### 9. Write any three file handling functions in C.
#### 10. Differentiate between address operator(&) and indirection(*) operator.

<h3 align= center><b>PART B</b></h3>
<h4 align=center ><i>Answer any one Question from each module. Each question carries 14 Marks</i></h4>

#### 11. a) Explain different types of memory used in a computer.
####     b) Write an algorithm to find sum of digits of a number.
<h3 align= center>OR</h3>

#### 12. Explain bubble sort with an example. Draw a flowchart and write pseudo code to perform bubble sort on an array of numbers.
#### 13. a) Explain different data types supported by C Language with their memory requirements.
####     b) Write a C program to check if a number is present in a given list of numbers, If present, give location of the number otherwise insert the number in the list at the end.
<h3 align= center>OR</h3>

#### 14. a) Write a C program to find the sum of first and last digit of a number.
#### b) What is type casting? Name the inbuilt typecasting functions available in Clanguage. What is the difference between type casting and type conversion?
#### 15. a) Write a C program to perform linear search on an array of numbers.
#### b) Write a C progrem to reverse a string without using string handling functions.
<h3 align= center>OR</h3>

#### 16. a) Write a C program to find the transpose of a matrix.
#### b) Write a C program to print number of vowels and consonants in a string.
#### 17. a) What is the purpose of function declaration and function definition and function call? With examples illustrate their syntax.
#### b) Write a C program to : 
#### (i) Create a structure containing containing the fields: Name, Price,Quantity, Total Amount.
#### (ii) Use separate functions to read and print the data
<h3 align= center>OR</h3>

#### 18. a) What are different storage classes in C? Give examples for each.
#### b) Write a C program to find sum and average of an array of integers using user defined functions.
#### 19. a) Explain the different modes of operations performed on a file in C language.
#### b) Write a program in C to copy the contents of one file into another.
<h3 align= center>OR</h3>

#### 20. a) Explain how pointers can be passed to functions in C.
#### b) Explain any 5 file handling functions in C?
